Blog post on OpenStack CLI and Device Authz Grant with PKCE (#728)
SovereignCloudStack/website: _i18n/en/_posts/blog/2023-09-05-progress-openstack-cli-with-federation.md

---
layout: post
title: "Progress: OpenStack API access with OpenID Connect in Sovereign Cloud Stack"
author:
  - "Arvid Requate"
avatar:
  - "arequate.jpg"
about:
  - "arequate"
---

As reported in a previous blog article about the [plans regarding OpenID Connect federation that came up from

> tje SCS hackathon in Cologne](https://scs.community/2023/01/05/sig-iam-openstack-cli-with-federation/), the IAM part of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the SCS hackathon in Cologne](https://scs.community/2023/01/05/sig-iam-openstack-cli-with-federation/), the IAM part of
```

and then continue to work on upstreaming upcoming improvements towards OpenStack. This time it was code, but we also
proposed improvements to upstream documentationm where we feel like we wasted time by barking up the wrong tree.
The SCS project is a great opportinity to openly exchange experience with OpenStack and other components and
to extract best practice recommendations for the users of SCS. When it comes down to access control, it's vitally
important not to blindly follow upstream howtos, but to test what implications the proposed configuration has
and if it is still best practice today before implementing it as part of the project.

One example of this kind is the [case of Horizon logout](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/issues/issues/347):
During an SCS presentation we discovered that hitting logout
in OpenStack Horizon fooled you to believe that you where actually logged out. But with federated login
we found that you would be logged in again immediately without entering your password as the Keycloak session

> did not get terminated and so the OpenID Connect token was stil valid. After some expermentation and research

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
did not get terminated and so the OpenID Connect token was still valid. After some experimentation and research
```

we found that this problem was well know to OpenStack developers to such an extent that there was a blog article
explaining how to address that. In the weekly SIG IAM meeting we discussed this and a colleague from Wavestack
explained that they found an even better solution.
This has been [merged into the testbed](https://github.com/osism/testbed/pull/1717) some weeks ago
and we will continue with making that fix part of the bigger move to ship our configuration for identity federation
as part of the OSISM Cookiecutter repository to make it easily available to productive deployments of SCS.

Enjoy,

> Arvid Requate (Member SCS "Operations and IAM" Team)

Reviewer: Literally, the "Operations and IAM" Team does not exist in this form ... since we have split the teams earlier this year.
If you quickly glance through our blog articles, we have not finished our blog articles with wishes from the author thus far. Maybe you wanted to do it on purpose, adding a more personal note here, and that's fine. If it was less on purpose and you were in mail writing mode when doing the last lines, maybe you scratch it?
